docs/class6/module1/lab2/lab2.rst, before:

Step 1 - Deploy and publish API sentence application in Kubernetes
##################################################################

It's time to deploy API Sentence application :)

**Deploy API Sentence micro-services with kubectl command**

With Kubernetes, there are several ways to deploy containers (pods). One way is to use ``kubectl`` command with a YAML deployment file (manifest).

I prepared a YAML manifest file ``attributs_without_colors.yaml``, and please see an extract below (this is only for the ``adjectives`` micro-services). You can have a look, and see it will deploy container image from my Gitlab.com repo.

.. code-block:: YAML

    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
    name: adjectives
    spec:
    type: NodePort
    ports:
    - port: 80
        nodePort: 31100
        targetPort: 8080
    selector:
        app: adjectives
    ---
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
    name: adjectives
    spec:
    replicas: 1
    selector:
        matchLabels:
        app: adjectives
    template:
        metadata:
        labels:
            app: adjectives
        spec:
        containers:
        - name: adjectives
            image: registry.gitlab.com/sentence-application/adjectives/volterra:latest
            imagePullPolicy: Always
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080


**Steps :**

#. RDP to the Win10 Jumphost with ``user:user`` as credentials
#. SSH to ``Docker (k3s + Rancher)`` VM
    #. Run ``sudo su``
    #. Run this command ``kubectl apply -f /home/ubuntu/k3s/attributs_without_colors.yaml -n api``
    #. Run this command ``kubectl apply -f /home/ubuntu/k3s/generator-direct.yaml -n api``
#. Open Edge Browser
#. Open Rancher Dashboard bookmark (if not already opened)
#. Login as ``admin:admin``
#. Click on ``Cluster Explorer`` yellow button on top right corner
#. On the left menu, select Deployments. You can see the deployments running in each NameSpace.
   
   .. image:: ../pictures/lab2/rancher-deployments.png
      :align: center

#. On the left menu, select Services. You can see the services with the NodePorts running in each NameSpace.
   
   .. image:: ../pictures/lab2/rancher-services.png
      :align: center

|

    As you can notice, the ``COLORS`` micro-service is not yet deployed. This is on purpose. On the API version v1.0, DevOps didn't finished this micro-services.
    It means the API Sentence app will generate a sentence without the color word. 

    And we already deployed for you the FrontEnd micro-service through a Nginx Ingress Controller.

Commit message:

Various updates to the class 6 lab docs

docs/class6/module1/lab2/lab2.rst, after:

Step 1 - Deploy and publish the API Sentence app in Kubernetes
##############################################################

It's now time to deploy the API Sentence app :)

With Kubernetes, there are several ways to deploy containers (pods). One way is to use the ``kubectl`` command with a YAML deployment file (manifest).

We have a YAML manifest file to deploy all the various API micro-services, ``attributs_without_colors.yaml``. You can find a short extract below (this is only for the ``adjectives`` micro-service), and see that it will deploy a container image from our GitLab repo:

.. code-block:: YAML

    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
    name: adjectives
    spec:
    type: NodePort
    ports:
    - port: 80
        nodePort: 31100
        targetPort: 8080
    selector:
        app: adjectives
    ---
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
    name: adjectives
    spec:
    replicas: 1
    selector:
        matchLabels:
        app: adjectives
    template:
        metadata:
        labels:
            app: adjectives
        spec:
        containers:
        - name: adjectives
            image: registry.gitlab.com/sentence-application/adjectives/volterra:latest
            imagePullPolicy: Always
            ports:
            - containerPort: 8080


**Steps :**

#. SSH (or WebSSH) to the ``Docker (k3s + Rancher + ELK)`` VM. Run the following commands to start up the Kubernetes cluster:

    .. code-block:: bash

       sudo su
       kubectl apply -f /home/ubuntu/k3s/attributs_without_colors.yaml -n api
       kubectl apply -f /home/ubuntu/k3s/generator-direct.yaml -n api

#. RDP to the ``Win10`` VM. Login by using ``user`` as both the user and the password credentials (you will need to use an RDP client):
   #. Open the ``Edge Browser`` and select the ``Rancher`` bookmark. If you get a ``Your connection isn't private`` warning, click ``Advanced`` -> ``Continue to <IP> (unsafe)``.
   #. Login into the ``Rancher`` dashboard by using ``admin`` as both the user and the password credentials.
   #. Click on the ``Cluster Explorer`` yellow button on the top right corner.
   #. On the left menu, select ``Deployments``. From here, you can see the ``Deployments`` running in each ``NameSpace``:

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab2/rancher-deployments.png
      :align: center

   #. On the left menu, select ``Services``. From here, you can see the ``Services`` running in each ``NameSpace``:

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab2/rancher-services.png
      :align: center

|

    As you can see, the ``Colors`` micro-service is not yet deployed. This is on purpose. DevOps didn't manage to finish this micro-service on time for this API's initial release, v1.0.
    As such, the API Sentence app will generate a sentence without a color.

    (For your interest -- we already deployed for you the ``Frontend`` micro-service through the NGINX Ingress Controller.)
