docs/class9/class9.rst, before:

Class 9: Access on NGINX+ - Authentication for Web Access
=========================================================

.. note:: **Last Updated: 05/27/2022**

Instructors at Agility 2022:

-  David Clark <d.clark@f5.com>
-  Matt Harmon <M.Harmon@f5.com>
-  Jeffrey Welton <j.welton@f5.com>

UDF Lab Maintainers:

-  David Clark <`d.clark@f5.com <mailto:%3d.clark@f5.com>`__>


This lab will show how to enable single sign-on (SSO) for applications being proxied by NGINX Plus. The solution uses OpenID Connect as the authentication mechanism, with Keycloak as the identity provider (IdP), and NGINX Plus as the relying party.


Expected time to complete: **1 hour**

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4
   :glob:

   intro
   module1/getting_started*
   module*/module*


.. important::

   * **The Lab MC will provide the necessary details to connect to lab environment.**

   * All work for this lab will be performed exclusively from the UDF Webshell and Firefox Container.

   * No installation or interaction with your local system is required.

.. attention::
   * For anyone wishing to take this lab at a later date, the lab is hosted on
     the F5 UDF Environment, and is called **"UA Nginx Class 9 Agility 2022"**. Please work with your F5 Account
     Team for access.

Commit message:

Catching up (#282)
* Pushing my first changes to my new branch :)

* Added a few more changes to the docs, just to preview :)

* Final draft changes pushed

* One more image should be added

* draft review

* draft review

* Update class 8 .rst

Removed UDF lab maintainers

* add converter section to expand base policy

* fix spelling

* Updated NGINX NAP DOS class 8

* spelling updates agility 2023

* Updated ACR lab

* Grob class5 nap waf edits (#276)

* Merging updates to develop  (#275)

* Pushing my first changes to my new branch :)

* Added a few more changes to the docs, just to preview :)

* Final draft changes pushed

* One more image should be added

* draft review

* draft review

* add converter section to expand base policy

* fix spelling

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updated policy count

* added estimated times

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>

* Final changes based on the feedback from beta testers

* Changes to the intro and getting_started page

* further changes to into

* Change name of UDF blueprint in intro

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Mickey Woods <m.woods@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: thnguyenf5 <th.nguyen@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Matthieu DIERICK <matt262810@gmail.com>

docs/class9/class9.rst, after:

Class 9: Access on NGINX+ - Authentication for Web Access
=========================================================

.. note:: **Last Updated: 04/20/2023**

Instructors at Agility 2023:

-  Amir Rawdat <a.rawdat@f5.com>
-  Ivan Reyes Mendez <i.reyesmendez@f5.com>

UDF Lab Maintainers:

-  Amir Rawdat <`a.rawdat@f5.com <mailto:%3a.rawdat@f5.com>`__>


This lab will show how to enable single sign-on (SSO) for applications being proxied by 
NGINX Plus. The solution uses OpenID Connect as the authentication mechanism, with 
Keycloak as the identity provider (IdP), and NGINX Plus as the relying party.


Expected time to complete: **1 hour**

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4
   :glob:

   intro
   module1/getting_started*
   module*/module*


.. important::

   * **The Lab MC will provide the necessary details to connect to lab environment.**

   * All work for this lab will be performed exclusively from the UDF Webshell and Firefox Container.

   * No installation or interaction with your local system is required.




.. attention::
   * For anyone wishing to take this lab at a later date, the lab is hosted on
     the F5 UDF Environment, and is called **"UA Nginx Class 9 Agility 2023"**. 


Please work with your F5 account team for access.
