docs/class6/module6/lab1/lab1.rst, before:

Step 12 - API analytics
#######################

There are several ways to see API Analytics. Under the hood, an ``API Definition`` and ``Published API`` create an Application with Component. You can see analytics for all the them at different level.

|

Global Analytics for the API Definition
***************************************

#. In the controller UI, go to ``Apps`` and click on ``api-sentence-app``
#. You can see the analytics at the application level. It means all Published API analysics (v1 and v3). If you scroll down, you can see the 2 ``Published API``

    .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/app.png
       :align: center

#. On the left menu, go deeper in the analytics, and select ``Components``
#. Then select of the components like ``cp-colors-v3``. You can see analytics with Metrics and Latency

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/component.png
      :align: center

#. Then, click on the left menu on ``Critical Analytics``

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/critical.png
      :align: center

.. note:: Feel free to navigate to the different analytics menus and understand the different level of analytics. You can select on the top right corner the ``Breakout By``

Commit message:

Various updates to the class 6 lab docs

docs/class6/module6/lab1/lab1.rst, after:

Step 12 - API analytics
#######################

There are several ways to check your API Analytics. Under the hood, both the ``API Definition`` and ``Published API`` are categorized as Applications with Components. You can see analytics for all of them at different levels.

|

Global Analytics for API Definitions
************************************

#. In NGINX Controller -> Select ``Apps`` -> ``api-sentence-app``.
#. From here, you can see the analytics at the application level. This view covers all of the Published API analytics (v1 and v3). If you scroll down, you can see the two distinct ``Published APIs``.

    .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/app.png
       :align: center

#. You can go deeper into each individual component's analytics if you select ``Components`` on the left side menu.
#. You can then select individual components such as ``cp-colors-v3`` to view a component's metrics and latency:

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/component.png
      :align: center

#. You can also view more fine grained performance analytics if you then click on the left menu on ``Critical Analytics``

   .. image:: ../pictures/lab1/critical.png
      :align: center

.. note:: Feel free to navigate to the different analytics menus and understand the various analytics views.

.. warning :: Congrats! You have successfully finished this lab! Visit https://nginx.com for more information regarding NGINX Controller, NGINX Plus, and NGINX App Protect!
