.. _1.1-install-nginx-manager:

Exercise 1.1: Installing NGINX Instance Manager
###############################################

Objective
=========

Demonstrate how to install `NGINX Instance Manager <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-instance-manager/getting-started/install/>`__ 
and find NGINX instances in an environment using the Scanning function of NGINX Instance Manager.

Guide
=====

Make sure you are in the home directory

.. code-block:: shell-session

   [centos@nginx-manager ~]$ cd ~

Installation of `NGINX Instance Manager <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-instance-manager/getting-started/install/>`__ 
follows a process that is very similar to installing 
`NGINX Plus <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/installing-nginx/installing-nginx-plus/>`__.

Step 1: Reset the environment
-----------------------------

The lab has a running and functioning NGINX Instance Manager already. We need to clean 
house and present the environment as it would be without any components running.  Lucky 
for us we have a script we can run (you can look into the script later if you want).

The script just handles uninstall and install functions related to this environment. 

As the centos user on ``nginx-manager`` run the following to clean out the environments.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   [centos@nginx-manager ~]$ ./reset clean

Step 2: Verify the repository is setup
--------------------------------------

In the Lab environment, we have already placed the license files in the correct locations.
We are utilizing an internal repository server that mimics the public repo server.  You can 
also download the rpm or deb file and install directly if desired or in offline environments.

Let's look at the repository information for our Centos 7 server instance.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   [centos@nginx-manager ~]$ sudo cat /etc/yum.repos.d/nginx-instance-manager.repo 
   [nginx-manager]
   name=NGINX Instance Manager repo
   baseurl=https://apt.f5demolab.com/centos/
   sslclientcert=/etc/ssl/nginx-manager/nginx-manager.crt
   sslclientkey=/etc/ssl/nginx-manager/nginx-manager.key
   gpgcheck=0
   enabled=1

.. note::

   In production these files are downloaded from pkgs.nginx.com and would point to 
   ``/etc/ssl/nginx/nginx-repo.crt`` and ``/etc/ssl/nginx/nginx-repo.key``

Check that yum can pull from the repository we setup.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   [centos@nginx-manager ~]$ sudo yum repolist

Step 3: Install nginx-manager
-----------------------------

We are going to use the yum repository manager for this.  We can also use yum 
for updates, removal and package management functions.  With the repository setup 
correctly, package management is simplified.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   [centos@nginx-manager ~]$ sudo yum install nginx-manager
   Loaded plugins: fastestmirror
   Loading mirror speeds from cached hostfile
   * base: d36uatko69830t.cloudfront.net
   * extras: d36uatko69830t.cloudfront.net
   * updates: d36uatko69830t.cloudfront.net
   Resolving Dependencies
   --> Running transaction check
   ---> Package nginx-manager.x86_64 0:0.9.1-3047962 will be installed
   --> Finished Dependency Resolution

   Dependencies Resolved

   ========================================================================================================================================
   Package                           Arch                       Version                           Repository                         Size
   ========================================================================================================================================
   Installing:
   nginx-manager                     x86_64                     0.9.1-3047962                     nginx-manager                      29 M

   Transaction Summary
   ========================================================================================================================================
   Install  1 Package

   Total download size: 29 M
   Installed size: 30 M
   Is this ok [y/d/N]: y
   Downloading packages:
   nginx-manager-0.9.1-3047962.x86_64.rpm                                                                           |  29 MB  00:00:00     
   Running transaction check
   Running transaction test
   Transaction test succeeded
   Running transaction
   Installing : nginx-manager-0.9.1-3047962.x86_64                                                                                   1/1 
   Platform systemd (default) detected. Installing service.
   To start this service, use: systemctl start nginx-manager
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Thank you for using NGINX!

      Product: nginx-manager
      Version: 0.9.1
         Build: 3047962

   Please find the documentation for NGINX nginx-manager here:
   https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-instance-manager/install/

   NGINX Instance Manager is proprietary software. EULA and License information:
   /usr/share/doc/nginx-manager/

   For support information, please see:
   https://www.nginx.com/support/

   Configuration settings can be adjusted here:
   /etc/nginx-manager/nginx-manager.conf

   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   Verifying  : nginx-manager-0.9.1-3047962.x86_64                                                                                   1/1 

   Installed:
   nginx-manager.x86_64 0:0.9.1-3047962                                                                                                  

   Complete!

That's it, nginx-manager is now installed!

You have finished this exercise. `Click here to return to the lab
guide <..>`__
