docs/class5/module3/lab5/lab5.rst, before:

Step 10 - Deploy NAP with a CI/CD toolchain
###########################################

In this lab, we will deploy a Docker NAP container with a CI/CD pipeline. NAP is tied to the app, so when DevOps commits a new app (or a new version), the CI/CD pipeline will to deploy a new NAP container in front to protect it. In order to avoid repeating what we did previously, we will use a signature package update as a trigger.

.. note:: When a new signature package is available, the CI/CD pipeline will build a new version of the Docker image and run it in front of the Arcadia Application.

**This is the workflow we will run (the steps to run are later in this page)**

    #. Check if a new Signature Package is available
    #. Simulate a Commit in GitLab (goal is to simulate a full automated process checking signature package every day)
    #. This commit triggers a webhook in Gitlab CI
    #. Gitlab CI runs the pipeline:
    
        #. Build a new Docker NAP image with a new tag ``date of the signature package``
        #. Destroy the previous running NAP container
        #. Run a new NAP container with the new Signature Package

.. note:: The goal of this lab is not understand what is possible. Feel free to browse through GitLab to see how it all works.

**Check the Gitlab CI file**

.. code-block:: yaml

    stages:
    - Build_image
    - Push_image
    - Run_docker

    before_script:
    - docker info

    Build_image:
    stage: Build_image
    script:
        - docker system prune --force
        - TAG=`yum info app-protect-attack-signatures | grep Version | cut -d':' -f2`
        - echo $TAG
        - export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1
        - docker build --no-cache --secret id=nginx-crt,src=nginx-repo.crt --secret id=nginx-key,src=nginx-repo.key -t docker:443/app-protect:`echo $TAG` .
        - echo export TAG=`echo $TAG` > $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
    artifacts:
        paths:
        - variables

    Push_image:
    stage: Push_image
    script:
        - source $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
        - echo $TAG
        - docker push docker:443/app-protect:`echo $TAG`

    Run_docker:
    stage: Run_docker
    script:
        - source $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
        - echo $TAG
        - ansible-playbook -i hosts playbook.yaml --extra-var dockertag=`echo $TAG`




.. note:: The challenge here was to retrieve the date of the package and tag the image with this date in order to have one image per signature package date. This is useful if you need to roll back to a previous version of the signatures.

**Simulate an automated task detecting a new Signature Package has been release by F5**

Steps:

    #.  On the jumphost, open Firefox > ``Gitlab``

        #. If Gitlab is not available (502 error), restart the GitLab Docker container. SSH to the GitLab VM and run ``sudo docker restart gitlab`` 
    #.  In GitLab, open ``Projects>NGINX App Protect / nap-docker-signature`` project

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/gitlab_project_updated.png
           :align: center
           :scale: 50%

    #.  SSH to the ``CICD server (runner, Terraform, Ansible)`` VM

        #. Optional: Run this command in order to determine the latest Signature Package date: ``sudo yum --showduplicates list app-protect-attack-signatures`` 
        or for ubuntu: ``sudo apt-cache policy app-protect-attack-signatures|grep 2021``
        #. You will see all versions published. In my case, it is ``2021.07.13`` (2021.07.13-1.el7.ngx). We will use this date as a Docker tag, but this will be done automatically by the CI/CD pipeline.

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/yum-date.png
           :align: center
           :scale: 50%

        **Trigger the CI/CD pipeline**

        Steps :

    #. In GitLab, click on ``Repository`` and ``Tags`` in the left menu

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/gitlab-tag.png
           :align: center

    #. Create a new tag and give it a name (though the tag name is arbitrary and the job will run with any tag name) Example: ``Sig-2021.07.13`` where ideally ``<version_date>`` should be replaced by the package version information found in the result of the ``yum info`` step above. But it does not matter, you can put anything you want in this tag.
    #. Click ``Create tag``
    #. At this moment, the ``Gitlab CI`` pipeline starts
    #. In Gitlab, in the ``signature-update`` repository, click ``CI / CD`` > ``Pipelines``

       .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/github_cicd.png
          :align: center   

    #. Enter into the pipeline by clicking on the ``running or passed`` button. And wait for the pipeline to finish. You can click on every job/stage to check the steps

       .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/github_pipeline.png
          :align: center 
    
    #. Check if the new image created and pushed by the pipeline is available in the Docker Registry.
        #. In Firefox open bookmark ``Docker Registry UI`` 
        #. Click on ``App Protect`` Repository
        #. You can see your new image with the tag ``2021.07.13`` - or any other tag based on the latest package date.

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/registry-ui.png
           :align: center 

    #. SSH to the Docker App Protect VM and check the signature package date running ``docker logs app-protect --follow``. Note it will take a few minutes for everything to start up in this lab environment with low IOPS.
    
        .. code-block:: bash
        
            2021/02/24 13:59:24 [notice] 13#13: APP_PROTECT { "event": "configuration_load_success", "software_version": "3.332.0", "user_signatures_packages":[],"attack_signatures_package":{"revision_datetime":"2021-01-28T20:04:14Z","version":"2021.01.28"},"completed_successfully":true,"threat_campaigns_package":{}}

    #. You can create some traffic to the new container with Firefox>Arcadia Links>Arcadia NAP Docker favorite
    
.. note:: Congratulations, you ran a CI/CD pipeline with a GitLab CI.

Commit message:

clarified to review file, not check out.

docs/class5/module3/lab5/lab5.rst, after:

Step 10 - Deploy NAP with a CI/CD toolchain
###########################################

In this lab, we will deploy a Docker NAP container with a CI/CD pipeline. NAP is tied to the app, so when DevOps commits a new app (or a new version), the CI/CD pipeline will to deploy a new NAP container in front to protect it. In order to avoid repeating what we did previously, we will use a signature package update as a trigger.

.. note:: When a new signature package is available, the CI/CD pipeline will build a new version of the Docker image and run it in front of the Arcadia Application.

**This is the workflow we will run (the steps to run are later in this page)**

    #. Check if a new Signature Package is available
    #. Simulate a Commit in GitLab (goal is to simulate a full automated process checking signature package every day)
    #. This commit triggers a webhook in Gitlab CI
    #. Gitlab CI runs the pipeline:
    
        #. Build a new Docker NAP image with a new tag ``date of the signature package``
        #. Destroy the previous running NAP container
        #. Run a new NAP container with the new Signature Package

.. note:: The goal of this lab is not understand what is possible. Feel free to browse through GitLab to see how it all works.

**Review the following Gitlab CI file**

.. code-block:: yaml

    stages:
    - Build_image
    - Push_image
    - Run_docker

    before_script:
    - docker info

    Build_image:
    stage: Build_image
    script:
        - docker system prune --force
        - TAG=`yum info app-protect-attack-signatures | grep Version | cut -d':' -f2`
        - echo $TAG
        - export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1
        - docker build --no-cache --secret id=nginx-crt,src=nginx-repo.crt --secret id=nginx-key,src=nginx-repo.key -t docker:443/app-protect:`echo $TAG` .
        - echo export TAG=`echo $TAG` > $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
    artifacts:
        paths:
        - variables

    Push_image:
    stage: Push_image
    script:
        - source $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
        - echo $TAG
        - docker push docker:443/app-protect:`echo $TAG`

    Run_docker:
    stage: Run_docker
    script:
        - source $CI_PROJECT_DIR/variables
        - echo $TAG
        - ansible-playbook -i hosts playbook.yaml --extra-var dockertag=`echo $TAG`




.. note:: The challenge here was to retrieve the date of the package and tag the image with this date in order to have one image per signature package date. This is useful if you need to roll back to a previous version of the signatures.

**Simulate an automated task detecting a new Signature Package has been release by F5**

Steps:

    #.  From the Docker VM, delete any running app-protect containers prior to proceeding.

        .. code-block:: bash
            docker rm -f app-protect

    #.  On the jumphost, open Firefox > ``Gitlab``
        #. If Gitlab is not available (502 error), restart the GitLab Docker container. SSH to the GitLab VM and run ``sudo docker restart gitlab`` 

    #.  In GitLab, open ``Projects>NGINX App Protect / nap-docker-signature`` project

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/gitlab_project_updated.png
           :align: center
           :scale: 50%

    #.  SSH to the ``CICD server (runner, Terraform, Ansible)`` VM

        #. Optional: Run this command in order to determine the latest Signature Package date:
            .. code-block:: bash
                # On CICD/centos:
                sudo yum --showduplicates list app-protect-attack-signatures
                # On Ubuntu:
                sudo apt-cache policy app-protect-attack-signatures|grep 2022

        #. You will see all versions published. In my case, it is ``2022.06.08`` (2022.06.08-1.el7.ngx). We will use this date as a Docker tag, but this will be done automatically by the CI/CD pipeline.

    #. In GitLab, click on ``Repository`` and ``Tags`` in the left menu

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/gitlab-tag.png
           :align: center

    #. Create a new tag and give it a name (though the tag name is arbitrary and the job will run with any tag name) Example: ``Sig-2021.07.13`` where ideally ``<version_date>`` should be replaced by the package version information found in the result of the ``yum info`` step above. But it does not matter, you can put anything you want in this tag.
    #. Click ``Create tag``
    #. At this moment, the ``Gitlab CI`` pipeline starts
    #. In Gitlab, in the ``signature-update`` repository, click ``CI / CD`` > ``Pipelines``

       .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/github_cicd.png
          :align: center   

    #. Enter into the pipeline by clicking on the ``running or passed`` button. And wait for the pipeline to finish. You can click on every job/stage to check the steps

       .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/github_pipeline.png
          :align: center 
    
    #. Check if the new image created and pushed by the pipeline is available in the Docker Registry.
        #. In Firefox open bookmark ``Docker Registry UI`` 
        #. Click on ``App Protect`` Repository
        #. You can see your new image with the tag ``2021.07.13`` - or any other tag based on the latest package date.

        .. image:: ../pictures/lab6/registry-ui.png
           :align: center 

    #. SSH to the Docker App Protect VM and check the signature package date running ``docker logs app-protect --follow``. Note it will take a few minutes for everything to start up in this lab environment with low IOPS.
    
        .. code-block:: bash
        
            2021/02/24 13:59:24 [notice] 13#13: APP_PROTECT { "event": "configuration_load_success", "software_version": "3.332.0", "user_signatures_packages":[],"attack_signatures_package":{"revision_datetime":"2021-01-28T20:04:14Z","version":"2021.01.28"},"completed_successfully":true,"threat_campaigns_package":{}}

    #. You can create some traffic to the new container with Firefox>Arcadia Links>Arcadia NAP Docker favorite
    
.. note:: Congratulations, you ran a CI/CD pipeline with a GitLab CI.
