docs/class5/module4/lab1/lab1.rst, before:

Protect Arcadia API with NGINX App Protect
==========================================

The Arcadia micro-services offer several REST APIs in order to:

- Buy stocks
- Sell stocks
- Transfer money to friends

In this lab, we'll deploy an NGINX App Protect WAF policy to protect the API.

Lab Tasks
---------

1. Click the **Applications** drop-down in the top menu bar and select **Postman**.

.. image:: images/postman_nav.png

.. caution:: It may take a moment for Postman to launch the first time.

2. Click the **GET Transactions** item in the **Arcadia API** collection. Click **Send** and notice that the API returns data.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_pretest.png 

3. Click the **POST Buy Stocks** item, then click **Send**. Again, notice the API is functioning properly. 

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks.png

4. Click the drop-down where **POST** is selected, and change to **OPTIONS**. Click **Send**. Notice that our API responded to this request.

.. image:: images/options.png

5. Return to **Firefox**. Click the **NMS** bookmark and log in using **lab** as the username and **Agility2023!** as the password. 

.. image:: images/nms_navigation_login.png

6. Click on the **Instance Manager** tile.

.. image:: images/nms_launchpad.png

7. Click **App Protect** in the left menu.

.. image:: images/nms_app_protect_list.png

8. Select the **NginxApiSecurityPolicy** from the policy list.

.. image:: images/nginx_policy_select.png

9. Click on the **Policy Versions** tab.

.. image:: images/policy_versions.png

10. Click on the version in the list. 

.. image:: images/policy_version_select.png

11. Review the configuration. Notice that this policy:

- Blocks the DELETE, OPTIONS and PUT HTTP operations, since our API does not utilize them
- includes a custom response via JSON to provide the support ID for easier troubleshooting
- Specifies actions to take on API-related violations
- Places a cap on XML payload lengths

.. note:: The full schema for the WAF policy can be found at [docs.nginx.com](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-app-protect-waf/declarative-policy/policy/).

.. code-block:: text

  {
      "policy": {
          "name": "app_protect_api_security_policy",
          "description": "NGINX App Protect API Security Policy. The policy is intended to be used with an OpenAPI file",
          "template": {
              "name": "POLICY_TEMPLATE_NGINX_BASE"
          },
          "methods": [
              {
                  "name": "DELETE",
                  "$action": "delete"
              },
              {
                  "name": "OPTIONS",
                  "$action": "delete"
              },
              {
                  "name": "PUT",
                  "$action": "delete"
              }
          ],
          "response-pages": [
              {
                  "responseContent": "{\"status\":\"error\",\"reason\":\"policy_violation\",\"support_id\":\"<%TS.request.ID()%>\"}",
                  "responseHeader": "content-type: application/json",
                  "responseActionType": "custom",
                  "responsePageType": "default"
              }
          ],
          "blocking-settings": {
              "violations": [
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Mandatory request body is missing",
                      "name": "VIOL_MANDATORY_REQUEST_BODY"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter location",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_LOCATION"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Mandatory parameter is missing",
                      "name": "VIOL_MANDATORY_PARAMETER"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "JSON data does not comply with JSON schema",
                      "name": "VIOL_JSON_SCHEMA"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter array value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_ARRAY_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal Base64 value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_BASE64"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal request content type",
                      "name": "VIOL_URL_CONTENT_TYPE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal static parameter value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_STATIC_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter value length",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_LENGTH"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter data type",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_DATA_TYPE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter numeric value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_NUMERIC_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Parameter value does not comply with regular expression",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_REGEXP"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal URL",
                      "name": "VIOL_URL"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal empty parameter value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_EMPTY_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal repeated parameter name",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_REPEATED"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal method",
                      "name": "VIOL_METHOD"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal gRPC method",
                      "name": "VIOL_GRPC_METHOD"
                  }
              ]
          },
          "xml-profiles": [
              {
                  "name": "Default",
                  "defenseAttributes": {
                      "maximumNameLength": 1024
                  }
              }
          ]
      }
  }

12. Let's apply this policy to the Arcadia Finance app, which includes an API. Click on **Instances** in the menu bar.

.. image:: images/instances_navigation.png

13. Select **nginx-plus-1** from the instance list.

.. image:: images/nginx_instance_selection.png

14. Click on **Edit Config** to enter the configuration mode.

.. image:: images/edit_config_nav.png

15. Click the **arcadia-finance.conf** file in the left navigation pane.

.. image:: images/select_app.png

16. Modify the NGINX configuration file **arcadia-finance.conf** to add the WAF policy to the API endpoints. Add this to the server block below the default location:

.. code-block:: text

      location /trading/rest {
          proxy_pass http://arcadia-finance$request_uri;
          proxy_set_header Host  k8s.arcadia-finance.io;
          status_zone arcadia-api;
          app_protect_enable on;
          app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.tgz";
      }

      location /api/rest {
          proxy_pass http://arcadia-finance$request_uri;
          proxy_set_header Host  k8s.arcadia-finance.io;
          status_zone arcadia-api;
          app_protect_enable on;
          app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.tgz";
      }

Your screen should look like the screenshot below:

.. image:: images/post_edit_config.png

17. Click **Publish** to deploy the changes. Click **Publish** again when prompted. You'll see a notification that the changes were published. 

.. image:: images/published.png

Test the App Protect Policy
---------------------------

18. Return to the  **Postman** app. Click the **GET Transactions** item in the **Arcadia API** collection.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_nav.png

19. Click **Send**.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_send.png

20. We can see from the response that the API is functioning properly. 

.. image:: images/get_transaction_response.png

21. Now select the **POST Buy Stocks XSS Attack**, then select **Send**. The NAP WAF policy will block this attack, as the response shows. 

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks_xss_attack.png

22. Run the **POST Buy Stocks** item again with the **OPTIONS** action selected. Notice that this request is now blocked as we do not permit OPTIONS operations.

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks_options_blocked.png

23. Now, select the **Struts2 Jakarta** item in the **Arcadia Attacks** collection, then press **Send**. This attack is blocked, but not by our WAF policy. Why? Because the URI is not a part of the locations we've added to the policy, so this portion of the app is protected by the original NAP WAF policy.

.. image:: images/struts2_jakarta.png

You've now completed the API WAF portion of the lab.

Commit message:

Grob class5 nap waf edits (#267)
* Marco's first round of comments

* Marco's suggested edits for module 2

* Updated credentials to be consistent

* Reviewed testing results with Chad Wise

* Marco's edits for Module 3

* Marco's Module 4 comments

* Adding NGINX App Protect terms to overview

* Added the attack signatures tool

* Moved some stuff around

docs/class5/module4/lab1/lab1.rst, after:

Protect Arcadia API with NGINX App Protect
==========================================

The Arcadia micro-services offer several REST APIs in order to:

- Buy stocks
- Sell stocks
- Transfer money to friends

In this lab, we'll deploy an NGINX App Protect WAF policy to protect the API.

Lab Tasks
---------

1. Click the **Applications** drop-down in the top menu bar and select **Postman**.

.. image:: images/postman_nav.png

.. caution:: It may take a moment for Postman to launch the first time.

2. In the **Collections** tab, select the **Arcadia API** and then the **GET Transactions** item. Click **Send** and notice the response data that the API returns in the **Body** section of the window.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_pretest.png 

3. Click the **POST Buy Stocks** item, then click **Send**. Again, notice the API is functioning properly. 

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks.png

4. Click the drop-down where **POST** is selected, and change to **OPTIONS**. Click **Send**. Notice that the API responded to this request.

.. image:: images/options.png

5. Return to **Firefox**. Click the **NMS** bookmark and log in using **lab** as the username and **Agility2023!** as the password. 

.. image:: images/nms_navigation_login.png

6. Click on the **Instance Manager** tile.

.. image:: images/nms_launchpad.png

7. Click **App Protect** in the left menu.

.. image:: images/nms_app_protect_list.png

8. Select the **NginxApiSecurityPolicy** from the policy list.

.. image:: images/nginx_policy_select.png

9. Click on the **Policy Versions** tab.

.. image:: images/policy_versions.png

10. Click on the version in the list. 

.. image:: images/policy_version_select.png

11. Review the configuration. Notice that this policy:

- Blocks the DELETE, OPTIONS and PUT HTTP operations, since the API does not utilize them
- includes a custom response via JSON to provide the support ID for easier troubleshooting
- Specifies actions to take on API-related violations
- Places a cap on XML payload lengths

.. note:: The full schema for the WAF policy can be found at [docs.nginx.com](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-app-protect-waf/declarative-policy/policy/).

.. code-block:: text

  {
      "policy": {
          "name": "app_protect_api_security_policy",
          "description": "NGINX App Protect API Security Policy. The policy is intended to be used with an OpenAPI file",
          "template": {
              "name": "POLICY_TEMPLATE_NGINX_BASE"
          },
          "methods": [
              {
                  "name": "DELETE",
                  "$action": "delete"
              },
              {
                  "name": "OPTIONS",
                  "$action": "delete"
              },
              {
                  "name": "PUT",
                  "$action": "delete"
              }
          ],
          "response-pages": [
              {
                  "responseContent": "{\"status\":\"error\",\"reason\":\"policy_violation\",\"support_id\":\"<%TS.request.ID()%>\"}",
                  "responseHeader": "content-type: application/json",
                  "responseActionType": "custom",
                  "responsePageType": "default"
              }
          ],
          "blocking-settings": {
              "violations": [
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Mandatory request body is missing",
                      "name": "VIOL_MANDATORY_REQUEST_BODY"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter location",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_LOCATION"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Mandatory parameter is missing",
                      "name": "VIOL_MANDATORY_PARAMETER"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "JSON data does not comply with JSON schema",
                      "name": "VIOL_JSON_SCHEMA"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter array value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_ARRAY_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal Base64 value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_BASE64"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal request content type",
                      "name": "VIOL_URL_CONTENT_TYPE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal static parameter value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_STATIC_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter value length",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_LENGTH"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter data type",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_DATA_TYPE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter numeric value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_NUMERIC_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Parameter value does not comply with regular expression",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_VALUE_REGEXP"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal URL",
                      "name": "VIOL_URL"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal parameter",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal empty parameter value",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_EMPTY_VALUE"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal repeated parameter name",
                      "name": "VIOL_PARAMETER_REPEATED"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal method",
                      "name": "VIOL_METHOD"
                  },
                  {
                      "block": true,
                      "description": "Illegal gRPC method",
                      "name": "VIOL_GRPC_METHOD"
                  }
              ]
          },
          "xml-profiles": [
              {
                  "name": "Default",
                  "defenseAttributes": {
                      "maximumNameLength": 1024
                  }
              }
          ]
      }
  }

12. You can apply this policy to the Arcadia Finance app, which includes an API. Click on **Instances** in the menu bar.

.. image:: images/instances_navigation.png

13. Select **nginx-plus-1** from the instance list.

.. image:: images/nginx_instance_selection.png

14. Click on **Edit Config** to enter the configuration mode.

.. image:: images/edit_config_nav.png

15. Click the **arcadia-finance.conf** file in the left navigation pane.

.. image:: images/select_app.png

16. Modify the **arcadia-finance.conf** configuration file by adding the below code to the *ssl server block* listening on port 443 directly below the line ``status_zone arcadia_server;``.

.. code-block:: text

      location /trading/rest {
          proxy_pass http://arcadia-finance$request_uri;
          proxy_set_header Host  k8s.arcadia-finance.io;
          status_zone arcadia-api;
          app_protect_enable on;
          app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.tgz";
      }

      location /api/rest {
          proxy_pass http://arcadia-finance$request_uri;
          proxy_set_header Host  k8s.arcadia-finance.io;
          status_zone arcadia-api;
          app_protect_enable on;
          app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.tgz";
      }

Your screen should look like the screenshot below:

.. image:: images/post_edit_config.png

17. Click **Publish** to deploy the changes. Click **Publish** again when prompted. You'll see a notification that the changes were published. 

.. image:: images/published.png

Test the App Protect Policy
---------------------------

18. Return to the  **Postman** app. Click the **GET Transactions** item in the **Arcadia API** collection.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_nav.png

19. Click **Send**.

.. image:: images/get_transaction_send.png

20. Notice from the response that the API is functioning properly. 

.. image:: images/get_transaction_response.png

21. Now select the **POST Buy Stocks XSS Attack**, then select **Send**. The NAP WAF policy will block this attack, as the response shows. 

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks_xss_attack.png

22. Run the **POST Buy Stocks** item again with the **OPTIONS** action selected. Notice that this request is now blocked as the policy does not permit OPTIONS operations.

.. image:: images/post_buy_stocks_options_blocked.png

23. Now, from the **Arcadia Attacks Collections** select the **Struts2 Jakarta** item and then click **Send**. This attack is blocked, but not by the API WAF policy. Why? Because the URI is not a part of the location where you've added the policy, so this portion of the app is protected by the original NAP WAF policy.

.. image:: images/struts2_jakarta.png

You've now completed the API WAF portion of the lab.
