docs/class14/module3/module3a.rst, before:

Configure NGINX Using a Template
================================

Paul has been interested in ways to make his job easier while enabling others in his organization to be self-sufficient. To this end, Paul has developed a base template for NIM to deploy proxy services for applications using his organizations preferred configuration practices. Paul is one of a few in his organization that is comfortable with NGINX configuration, so he wants to make it easy for others to be able to deploy their applications on NGINX.

Acting as Paul, you will test the template imported in the previous section by actually deploying it to provide an HTTP proxy for the PyGoat application. The PyGoat application has already been installed on the workloads server for you.

**Application 1 - Basic Proxy for Juice Shop**

1. In a new Firefox tab, enter **nginx.f5demos.com**, which is the hostname of the NGINX server. 

   You will see a generic **Welcome to nginx** page. 

   .. image:: ../images/image-welcome-nginx.png

   NGINX (**nginx.f5demos.com**) has not been configured to proxy traffic to any of our applications, and it is configured as a basic web server by default. We will configure port **8080** on the nginx.f5demos.com host to do this. 

2. Back in the NIM tab, click **Templates** in the left navigation.

3. At the right side of the **Basic Reverse Proxy** template there will be a `...` menu in the **Actions** column. Click that, then select **Preview and Generate**. This will present a series of input forms to collect information for the new NGINX HTTP proxy configuration deployment.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-actions.png
     :width: 259

4. Select the **Publish to an instance** radio button.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-pub.png
     :width: 620

5. In the instance dropdown menu, select **nginx.f5demos.com**. This is an NGINX Plus instance that we accessed earlier and is already managed by NIM.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-select.png
     :width: 800

6. Click **Next** at the bottom right of the page.

7. We are not using *Augment Templates* in this serction of the lab so click **Next** for **Choose Augments**.

8. In the **HTTP Servers** view, click the **Add HTTP Servers** link. This will reveal a new form to collect server information.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-add-http.png
     :width: 838

9. Enter the following data in the **Listen** section:

   .. list-table:: 
     :header-rows: 1

     * - **Item**
       - **Value**
     * - Listen Port
       - 8080
     * - Default Server
       - true

10. Scroll down to **Server Locations** and click **Add Server Locations**.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-add-location.png
      :width: 900

11. Enter the following data in this section (**workloads.f5demos.com:9000** is the host that contains one of our applications):

    .. list-table:: 
      :header-rows: 1

      * - **Item**
        - **Value**
      * - Location Match Strategy
        - Prefix
      * - URI   
        - /
      * - Upstream Name
        - workloads.f5demos.com:9000

12. Click **Next**. We won't configure an HTTP Upstream for this example.

13. Click **Next**. This will show you a preview of the config generated from the templates.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-config-preview.png

14. Click the filename dropdown (currently displaying `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`) at the top of the screen. Click `/etc/nginx.mime.types` file. As a convenience, this base template also creates this file for you, and will publish it to the instance in addition to the main `nginx.conf` file.

15. Click the **Publish** button. If successful, you should see a message indicating so.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-pub-success.png
      :width: 500

16. Close the Templates window.

17. What did we just do? Based on the data we entered, we intend to configure an NGINX configuration file that:

    - Creates a new HTTP Server 
    - Listens on port 8080 
    - Will be the default HTTP server
    - Creates a single location using the `/` path prefix
    - Ensure requests made to this location will pass traffic to a **Juice Shop** application running on the workloads.f5demos.com server

Commit message:

Fixed type and updated flow around Juice Shop

docs/class14/module3/module3a.rst, after:

Configure NGINX Using a Template
================================

Paul has been interested in ways to make his job easier while enabling others in his organization to be self-sufficient. To this end, Paul has developed a base template for NIM to deploy proxy services for applications using his organizations preferred configuration practices. Paul is one of a few in his organization that is comfortable with NGINX configuration, so he wants to make it easy for others to be able to deploy their applications on NGINX.

Acting as Paul, you will test the template imported in the previous section by actually deploying it to provide an HTTP proxy for the Juice Shop application.  We will then use the template to configure and deploy the PyGoat application. The PyGoat application has already been installed on the workloads server for you.

**Application 1 - Basic Proxy for Juice Shop**

1. In a new Firefox tab, enter **nginx.f5demos.com**, which is the hostname of the NGINX server. 

   You will see a generic **Welcome to nginx** page. 

   .. image:: ../images/image-welcome-nginx.png

   NGINX (**nginx.f5demos.com**) has not been configured to proxy traffic to any of our applications, and it is configured as a basic web server by default. We will configure port **8080** on the nginx.f5demos.com host to do this. 

2. Back in the NIM tab, click **Templates** in the left navigation.

3. At the right side of the **Basic Reverse Proxy** template there will be a `...` menu in the **Actions** column. Click that, then select **Preview and Generate**. This will present a series of input forms to collect information for the new NGINX HTTP proxy configuration deployment.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-actions.png
     :width: 259

4. Select the **Publish to an instance** radio button.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-pub.png
     :width: 620

5. In the instance dropdown menu, select **nginx.f5demos.com**. This is an NGINX Plus instance that we accessed earlier and is already managed by NIM.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-select.png
     :width: 800

6. Click **Next** at the bottom right of the page.

7. We are not using *Augment Templates* in this section of the lab so click **Next** for **Choose Augments**.

8. In the **HTTP Servers** view, click the **Add HTTP Servers** link. This will reveal a new form to collect server information.

   .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-add-http.png
     :width: 838

9. Enter the following data in the **Listen** section:

   .. list-table:: 
     :header-rows: 1

     * - **Item**
       - **Value**
     * - Listen Port
       - 8080
     * - Default Server
       - true

10. Scroll down to **Server Locations** and click **Add Server Locations**.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-add-location.png
      :width: 900

11. Enter the following data in this section (**workloads.f5demos.com:9000** is the host that contains one of our applications):

    .. list-table:: 
      :header-rows: 1

      * - **Item**
        - **Value**
      * - Location Match Strategy
        - Prefix
      * - URI   
        - /
      * - Upstream Name
        - workloads.f5demos.com:9000

12. Click **Next**. We won't configure an HTTP Upstream for this example.

13. Click **Next**. This will show you a preview of the config generated from the templates.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-config-preview.png

14. Click the filename dropdown (currently displaying `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`) at the top of the screen. Click `/etc/nginx.mime.types` file. As a convenience, this base template also creates this file for you, and will publish it to the instance in addition to the main `nginx.conf` file.

15. Click the **Publish** button. If successful, you should see a message indicating so.

    .. image:: ../images/nim-templates-pub-success.png
      :width: 500

16. Close the Templates window.

17. What did we just do? Based on the data we entered, we intend to configure an NGINX configuration file that:

    - Creates a new HTTP Server 
    - Listens on port 8080 
    - Will be the default HTTP server
    - Creates a single location using the `/` path prefix
    - Ensure requests made to this location will pass traffic to a **Juice Shop** application running on the workloads.f5demos.com server
