docs/class5/module2/lab4/lab4.rst, before:

Enable NGINX App Protect on the Arcadia Finance App
===================================================

We will now enable NGINX App Protect and apply a WAF policy to the Arcadia Finance app.

1. Address known-issue in NGINX Agent.

.. warning:: As of March 30th, 2023, a known issue is impacting this lab. 
  
To avoid the issue, SSH into nginx-plus-2 and issue the following command: 

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo sed -i 's/precompiled_publication: true/precompiled_publication: false/g' /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf; sudo systemctl restart nginx-agent; sleep 7; sudo sed -i 's/precompiled_publication: false/precompiled_publication: true/g' /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf; sudo systemctl restart nginx-agent

2. Open **Firefox** and click on the  **NMS** bookmark.

.. image:: images/nms_bookmark.png

3. Log in using the username **lab** and password **Agility2023!**. Click on the **Instance Manager** tile.

.. image:: images/nms_dashboard.png

4. Click on **nginx-plus-2.agility.lab** instance in the list. 

.. image:: images/nms_instance_select.png

5. Click on the **Edit Config** button. 

.. image:: images/nms_instance_edit_config.png

6. Select the **arcadia-financial.conf** file in the navigation pane on the left.

.. image:: images/config_nav_pane.png

7. Add the following configuration lines to the **server** block:

.. code-block:: bash

      app_protect_enable on;
      app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/AgilityPolicy.tgz";
      app_protect_security_log_enable on;
      app_protect_security_log "/etc/nms/secops_dashboard.tgz" syslog:server=127.0.0.1:514;

Your screen should look similar to below:

.. image:: images/modified_arcadia-financial_conf.png

8. Click the **Publish** icon in the toolbar in the file editor.

.. image:: images/publish_btn.png

9. You will be presented with a confirmation prompt. Click **Publish** to continue. 

.. image:: images/publish_confirm.png

10. After a few moments, you will see a notification that the configuration was successfully published.

.. image:: images/publish_notification.png

11. Click on **App Protect** from the menu. 

.. image:: images/app_protect_nav.png

12. On the list of policies, click on the name **AgilityPolicy**.

.. image:: images/agilitypolicy_select.png

13.  On this screen, you can see that our policy is applied.

.. image:: images/agility_policy_applied.png

This concludes this portion of the lab.

Commit message:

Grob class5 nap waf edits (#262)
* Marco's first round of comments

* Marco's suggested edits for module 2

* Updated credentials to be consistent

* Reviewed testing results with Chad Wise

docs/class5/module2/lab4/lab4.rst, after:

Enable NGINX App Protect on the Arcadia Finance App
===================================================

We will now enable NGINX App Protect and apply a WAF policy to the Arcadia Finance app.

.. attention:: The release we use in our lab, 2.8.0, has a known issue. This issue is fixed in releases 2.9.0 and higher. Due to time restrictions, we were unable to upgrade this lab prior to the event. 
  
  For details on the known-issue, refer to *Precompiled Publication setting is reverted to false after error publishing NGINX App Protect policy* on the `NGINX Management Suite Known Issues <https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-management-suite/nim/releases/known-issues/>`_ page.

1. First, we need to address the known-issue in our lab's release of NGINX Management Suite. From the **Applications** menu, click **SSH Shortcuts** and log into **nginx-plus-2**. Issue the following command: 

.. code-block:: bash

  sudo sed -i 's/precompiled_publication: true/precompiled_publication: false/g' /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf; sudo systemctl restart nginx-agent; sleep 7; sudo sed -i 's/precompiled_publication: false/precompiled_publication: true/g' /etc/nginx-agent/nginx-agent.conf; sudo systemctl restart nginx-agent

2. Open **Firefox** and click on the  **NMS** bookmark.

.. image:: images/nms_bookmark.png

3. Log in using the **lab** / **Agility2023!** credentials. Click on the **Instance Manager** tile.

.. image:: images/nms_dashboard.png

4. Click on **nginx-plus-2.agility.lab** instance in the list. 

.. image:: images/nms_instance_select.png

5. Click on the **Edit Config** button. 

.. image:: images/nms_instance_edit_config.png

6. Select the **arcadia-financial.conf** file in the navigation pane on the left.

.. image:: images/config_nav_pane.png

7. Add the following configuration lines to the **server** block that includes the *listen 443 ssl* directive:

.. code-block:: bash

      app_protect_enable on;
      app_protect_policy_file "/etc/nms/AgilityPolicy.tgz";
      app_protect_security_log_enable on;
      app_protect_security_log "/etc/nms/secops_dashboard.tgz" syslog:server=127.0.0.1:514;

Your screen should look similar to below:

.. image:: images/modified_arcadia-financial_conf.png

8. Click the **Publish** icon in the toolbar in the file editor.

.. image:: images/publish_btn.png

9. You will be presented with a confirmation prompt. Click **Publish** to continue. 

.. image:: images/publish_confirm.png

10. After a few moments, you will see a notification that the configuration was successfully published.

.. image:: images/publish_notification.png

11. Click on **App Protect** from the menu. 

.. image:: images/app_protect_nav.png

12. On the list of policies, click on the name **AgilityPolicy**.

.. image:: images/agilitypolicy_select.png

13.  On this screen, you can see that our policy is applied.

.. image:: images/agility_policy_applied.png
