docs/class8/module3/module3.rst, before:

Module 3 - Establishing Application Traffic Baseline
###################################################################

NGINX App Protect DoS is based on learning and analyzing all traffic to the web application. 
It  builds baselines for what traffic should look like and identifies anomalies when server stress is detected.

Establish baseline
------------------

1. Open WebShell to the 'legitimate traffic VM'

2. Run the good traffic script

.. code:: shell

    ./good.sh 

3. Allow good traffic to run for 10 minutes 

4. Click **Kibana** on the Access pulldown on the ELK VM
   

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_elk_homepage.jpeg


5. Click the menu button in the upper left corner ( button with 3 horizontal lines)

6. Under **Analytics** click **Discover** (second option down)

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_kibana_search.png


7. Under Available Fields, Click **learning_confidence** 
8. Click the '+' button to the right of learning_confidence 
9. Wait until learing confidence is **Ready** 

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_kibana_ready.png

Commit message:

Catching up (#282)
* Pushing my first changes to my new branch :)

* Added a few more changes to the docs, just to preview :)

* Final draft changes pushed

* One more image should be added

* draft review

* draft review

* Update class 8 .rst

Removed UDF lab maintainers

* add converter section to expand base policy

* fix spelling

* Updated NGINX NAP DOS class 8

* spelling updates agility 2023

* Updated ACR lab

* Grob class5 nap waf edits (#276)

* Merging updates to develop  (#275)

* Pushing my first changes to my new branch :)

* Added a few more changes to the docs, just to preview :)

* Final draft changes pushed

* One more image should be added

* draft review

* draft review

* add converter section to expand base policy

* fix spelling

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updated policy count

* added estimated times

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>

* Final changes based on the feedback from beta testers

* Changes to the intro and getting_started page

* further changes to into

* Change name of UDF blueprint in intro

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

* no comment

---------

Co-authored-by: rawdata123 <amir.rawdat@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Mickey Woods <m.woods@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: cwise24 <c.wise@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Chad <cwise24@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: thnguyenf5 <th.nguyen@f5.com>
Co-authored-by: Matthieu DIERICK <matt262810@gmail.com>

docs/class8/module3/module3.rst, after:

Module 3 - Establishing Application Traffic Baseline
###################################################################

NGINX App Protect DoS is based on learning and analyzing all traffic to the web application. 
It  builds baselines for what traffic should look like and identifies anomalies when server stress is detected.

Establish baseline
------------------

1. Open WebShell to the 'legitimate traffic VM' (UDF > Components > Systems > legitimate traffic > Access > Web Shell)

2. Run the good traffic script

.. code:: shell

    ./good.sh 

3. Allow good traffic to run for 10 to 20 minutes 

4. Click **Kibana** on the Access pulldown on the ELK VM (UDF > Components > Systems > elk > Access > Kibana)

.. Note::

    - Contrary to the lab topology image and the description of the environment, the Kibana server IP address is 10.1.1.8.
   

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_elk_homepage.jpeg


5. Click the menu button in the upper left corner ( button with 3 horizontal lines)

6. Under **Analytics** click **Discover** (second option down)

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_kibana_search.png


7. Under Available Fields, Click the word **learning_confidence** 
8. Under the **Multi fields** section, Click the '+' button to the right of learning_confidence.keyword. 
9. Also add **vs_name** and **unit_hostname** as additional filters

.. Note::

    After 15 minutes of running good (creating a baseline) traffic, there will be "Ready" and "Not ready" states indicated. Find a row indicating a "Ready" state, then filter for that word by moving your cursor to the far right side of the window and select "+." 

10. Wait until learing confidence is **Ready** 

.. image:: ../../_static/class8_module3_kibana_ready.png
